Here there is a list of all the simulation variables that define the state $s \in S$ for the first version of the simulation.

# State Variables

## Ignition module

- $V$: Voltage between the wire and the workpiece. This is generated by the power supply and influences the spark ignition dynamics.
- $I$: Current flowing through the wire and the workpiece. This is generated by the power supply and influences the material removal process.
- $\tau_{D}$: Counter for the time since the voltage was open. This is needed to extend the state to fulfill the Markov property. Since, depending on the assumptions, the ignition probability for the next timestep might depend on the time since the voltage was raised.
- $x_{\text{wire}}$: Position of the wire. This is needed to calculate the distance between the wire and the workpiece, which influences the spark ignition dynamics.
- $x_{\text{workpiece}}$: Position of the workpiece. This is needed to calculate the distance between the wire and the workpiece, which influences the spark ignition dynamics.
- $\sigma_{\text{ignition}}$: This is a tuple that contains the state of ignition, location, and duration:
    - $\sigma_{\text{ignition}} = (\sigma_{\text{state}}, \sigma_{\text{location}}, \sigma_{\text{duration}})$
    - $\sigma_{\text{state}}$: State of the ignition process. It can be one of the following:
        - $\sigma_{\text{state}} = 1 \rightarrow$ Spark formation
        - $\sigma_{\text{state}} = -1 \rightarrow$ Short circuit
        - $\sigma_{\text{state}} = 0 \rightarrow$ No event
    - $\sigma_{\text{location}}$: Location of the spark along the y-axis.
    - $\sigma_{\text{duration}}$: Counter for how long the current state has been active.